The new statistic that I created to evaluate players is of the same nature as slugging percentage, but it is for evaluating pitchers rather than hitters. It is calculated the same way that slugging percentage is calculated for hitters, but for pitchers, the lower the score the better, similar to ERA. The weights for each type of hit will be the same as slugging percentage: doubles are weighted twice as much as singles, triples weighted three times as much, and home runs weighted four times as much. In addition to these stats though, earned runs are also factored in. These have the same weight as home runs. I feel that this would be an important addition to a “slugging” percentage for pitchers. For example, a pitcher could allow a lot of base runners, but if those baserunners do not score, those events ultimately will not affect the outcome of the game. If this were to happen, a pitcher could have a high “slugging” percentage but could still be an effective pitcher, striking out many batters and getting wins. So, adding in earned runs helps account for this. I will also add in strikeouts to this equation, as many of the dominant pitchers of today’s game put up great strikeout numbers. However, it is certainly possible to be a great pitcher and not have great strikeout numbers. Because of this, strikeouts will not be weighted as heavily as earned runs. They are given a weight of 1.5. One thing to note with strikeouts is that unlike any kind of hit and earned runs, more strikeouts is a positive thing. So while every other stat will increase a pitcher’s “slugging percentage”, strikeouts will help reduce the percentage, thus the weighting of strikeouts must be negative. 

See Final_code.sql for the calculations of my stat and manipulation of the data. 

See Project_presentation.ipynb for the presentation of my statistic in a Jupyter Notebook. 
